people pay big bucks for the fastest PCS
so then you would think conversely if
you buy the slowest components you
should save a ton of money right I mean
it sounds logical enough and this is
brand new hardware it's got to be better
than buying something used right well
not necessarily last time around we used
the Athlon 3000g which by the way AMD
still hasn't replaced other than to give
it a packaging refresh and a shiny new
partner just a couple of months ago not
to be outdone Intel has come out with
something since then that is somehow a
bit
slower on first glance the Intel Celeron
G500 is quite similar to amd's worst
both are dual core chips based on their
respective Brands 14 nmet processors
with PCI Express gen 3 dual Channel ddr4
memory and built-in Graphics but the
Celeron is slower clocking at 3.4 GHz to
the Athlon 3.5 with just one thread per
core rather than two all while drawing
almost twice as much power we're going
to have it linked in the video
description in case you want to see the
full specs but I really don't think any
of you should be running out to buy this
thing even if it does include this
spiffy heat sinking fan maybe you'd
rather check out our sponsor pulseway it
systems can be a pain but with pulse's
remote monitoring and management
software there a breeze get real-time
system monitoring instant alerts and
auto remediation all from one platform
at any time using any device start your
free trial today with the link below
we'll pair our little Celeron or celery
as we used to call them with a basic
motherboard that we dug out of storage
since the exact board doesn't affect
performance much for this generation
h410 and b460 were the entrylevel
chipsets but they'll cost you around a
100 Yankee Doodles these days notably
this is not a good price when you're
spending only $50 on your CPU which
highlights one of the major issues with
buying super low tier brand new hardware
the supporting players might end up
breaking your budget even if you feel
like you're getting a deal on one of the
components that's why we took a
completely different approach with our
comparable system this time around oh
yes we're doing one of those as well by
going secondhand the DDR
42666 supported by our CPU is still
readily available though these days you
have to go out of your way if you want
to find less than an 8 gig dual Channel
kit which we did so we have gone with
this single 4 gig stick avengeance lpx
ddr4 and for storage we've got this bad
boy it is getting pretty unusual for us
to do a build with a conventional hard
drive these days and literally all of
the pre-built PCS that we looked at from
major retailers Shi with ssds now but
hey these good oldfashioned Spin and
hunks of metal they ain't dead yet so we
settled on the WD 5000 AZ RZ from
Western digitals blue lineup it holds
500 GB of storage includes a 64 megabyte
cache spins at
5400 revolutions per minute and has a
transfer rate of up to 150 mbes a second
yeah you're going to be plenty slow for
our little sluggish PC here ah isn't
that cute to be honest guys we weren't
sure how to settle on the slowest case
is it the heaviest the one with the
worst airf flow the one without any
keyed heads on the screws so it takes
longer to assemble even with the help of
a trusty KN to Edition LTT Screwdriver
from LTT store.com we ended up settling
on the fantex eclipse g300 a and then we
made a cute little na decal for the side
now for some reason power supply
manufacturers don't include a speed
rating in their spec so we went with a
basic 450 W unit from fsp nothing to
really write home about here folks but
plenty capable of powering this sluggish
setup it's the hexa 85 Plus Pro with the
Final Touch being our 8 Pin PCI Express
auxiliary power which we are not going
to need at all believe it or not you can
still
get brand new GT 730s which did work on
Windows 11 at one point but seem to have
lost support in recent drivers so we are
going to be going with the almost as
terrible GT
1030 it really is still more of a I
desperately need a second Monitor and a
low profile case sort of card as opposed
to a gaming device especially
considering amd's recent launch of
onboard Graphics that can run circles
around it but let's give it a go that is
one slow gaming PC you can fit so much
slow in this bad boy I think having one
RGB thing is worse than having no RGB
things just looks so out of place that's
the hardest working red LED gaming hey
actually can't see it on my display I
can see it on the capture machine over
there now it's on mine awesome haven't
seen Windows take this long to load in a
little
while
uh wow
it's like the gym teacher came in and
Microsoft was like okay how many laps
should I run coach and the gym teacher
was like
yes going
around oh my God it's still going it
went black for a
second thought we were
done do you guys remember the early days
of SSD when people like me were out
there going yeah SSD it's a big deal it
makes a big difference and the hard
drive enthusiasts because yes that was
the thing we're all the transfer speeds
aren't even that much faster hard drive
hard drive hard drive no no this is what
I was talking about
man the CPU ain't
helping are we going to leave this whole
uninterrupted clip in the video just to
show people hoing long it takes okay
there we
go there's the wallpaper hold on where's
my password prompt
look guys this is not fake okay I'm
still waiting on it
hey I don't know what we were doing for
all those other circles but we're not
done yet let's run some more my desktop
icons are still
loading Google Chrome what's that oh
there it is where's my start menu at I
right clicked let's see how long it
takes to
register this is not all hard Drive I've
seen hard drive based computers be
perfectly
acceptable and this meets Windows 11's
minimum specs this is within Windows
11's minimum
spec Microsoft did you learn nothing
from Vista okay I'm just going to click
the start
[Laughter]
menu listen for the
delay wait for
it hey you besides that no problem at
all okay there we go oh no Counter
Strike has an update Q Jord come on what
160 megabytes that could take
hours pause Doom yeah yeah no it'll
it'll it'll do that it's just it needs a
second to spool down it's stopping the
download oh my God it's happened today
yeah that 150 Megs a year hey there we
go baby I'll fire up frame view but
first I want to see how fast we can
download a game we are almost certainly
CPU bottlenecked right now and we are
looking at 20 megabytes a second that's
atrocious it's too broken for me to even
compare the download speeds to I was
just looking at our chilled thread per
video and we were downloading at 8 gabit
per second desktop window manager is
pulling 5% of this
CPU Windows problem reporting 4% we are
coming down at between 15 and 20
megabytes per second so that's in the
200 megabit range and we are sucking
back 40% of this CPU we're going to see
what's faster Linus's bladder or
Counter-Strike running and install
script my bets on Linus the computer
wins and lus is not fast in the bathroom
did I win oh never mind it's launched
but I mean is
it we could probably call it a draw it
says walking wait up close it warning
graphics driver is out of date we'll be
okay don't show
again they're from yesterday it'll
probably be
okay
hello is it just broken I do not
understand what's happening right now I
think it's fading in cuz the background
is getting darker this is messed up
okay 1920 x 1080 here we go here we go
that might help wow okay it's
how is this built out of components you
can still buy brand new why are
companies selling these things is this
Counter Strike 2 we're not trying to
play cyberpunk I don't even think we'd
be able to play Peggle on this thing
without
leg I'm waiting for task manager to load
right now task manager in summary we
spent 38 $380
it's not even that cheap to build a
steaming pile of garbage for real guys
this is so slow that it's basically e-w
by modern standards but we didn't do
this because we thought it was a good
idea we did it to illustrate a point
which this far into the video we are now
finally getting to thank you for your
patience our alternative to the slowest
PC last time went a little bit off the
rails we suggested a build that cost
twice as much and while obviously I know
what we were trying to say by spending
2x you could achieve a performance
uplift of 3x or 4X or even more this
time we wanted to challenge ourselves to
do better so we have stuck with the
exact same price point of our slowest
build and by turning to the used Market
we have gotten a lot more bang for our
buck Facebook Marketplace unfort for
didn't have much exciting in our area at
the moment but we hit Pay Dirt on
Craigslist with this Acer pre-built with
an eigh gen core i58400 that is a six
Core sixth thread CPU 8 gigs of ddr4 RAM
a 500 gig SSD and a fresh install of
Windows 11 all for
$200 old pre-assembled Office Machines
like this are great for Budget Gamers
because they are known to be compatible
and working and they often come cheaper
than the individual parts or even older
custom gaming PCs if you see people
listing those so we snapped it up and
brought it back to the office to test
out it came with a rather disappointing
power supply just 300 wats and only
enough connectors for what was already
in the tower but otherwise everything
looks like a decent enough base with our
system and left us with a budget of $180
for a GPU and a new power supply we were
someone got a synonym for pretty darn
surprised we were stupified to find a
used 1080 TI for just $150 on eBay what
a deal but unfortunately that didn't
leave us with enough for a decent power
supply so we ended up with a used non-ti
1080 for around $120 and added a brand
new thermal smart 650 watt for $60 let's
fire this up for comparison hey nice
it's even got a speaker for that price
one
two
three and we're booted wow it's almost
like it's a way better computer there's
my task manager I mean sure that's a
fair bit of CPU to be using at booted up
but at least steam is open already wow
what a difference man to be clear this
is still an older machine that was a bit
of a delay when I clicked on the system
tray for the first time but this is a
market difference I want to see how fast
we can download a game get pegle okay
it's not quite the same game I'm I'll
get F1 so it's still not fast and we are
clearly CPU bottlenecked at that speed
look at this this is great but I was
able to open task
manager at least I was able to identify
the problem
the whole interface is so much snappier
look what if I wanted to browse the web
there it is look how quick this download
is done the whole update is done in the
time that it took to just click on it on
the last computer oh that was supposed
to be a video okay
hilarious wow you can change to full
screen just like that it's
remarkable jeez man that was brutal dude
okay
that's not a ton of fpss those 1% lows
in particular not that great but I got a
kill already um I'll just oh oh hello
spawn kill oh no
what okay I'm not getting the highest
FPS or anything like that especially
those 1% lows are dipping down to like
70 but this is very very usable and I
know some people are just plain not
interested in used Hardware because they
have concerns about reliability they
don't like the process of meeting up
with people on Craigslist or whatever
else but guys before you buy something
entry level try and find your scrapyard
War spirit because these experiences are
not like when you're choosing a new
graphics card for $400 and you might get
72 FPS or 83 FPS we are talking dramatic
differences in the usability of these
machines oh what that was terrible I'd
be so much happier with this like not
even I mean look I do understand that
you are giving up a warranty by going
this route but if you test things before
you buy them it's probably not a big
deal if that 6-year-old 8-year-old CPU
hasn't died already it's probably not
going to die anytime soon and
realistically if it does hey you've
gained some valuable scrapyard boring
skills that will get you back up and
running in no time going the used route
also reduces e waste keeping these still
serviceable Parts in operation instead
of in a landfill and I mean hey you get
a better machine for your money just
like you'll get more for your money with
our sponsor Opera GX browsing the
worldwide web doesn't need to be as dry
and boring as Shredded Wheat Opera GX is
a flavor explosion of a web browsing
experience it has a bunch of different
mods to make your browser just a little
more personal things like unique and
customizable themes alongside background
music music and keyboard sounds this is
crazy or check out the GX store to see
what features and backgrounds others
have made some browsers can be a major
resource drain while you're trying to
game oper GX lets you adjust how much of
your system is being used at any given
time which means you don't have to
download more RAM from freer.com not
only do they make it easy to Port over
from your old browser but oper GX
supports all Google Chrome extensions
I'm learning so much so get started with
Opera GX totally free today by clicking
our Link in the description below if you
guys enjoyed this video check out the
last time we built a slowest computer
most of those parts are still available
as well you want us to want us to race
them or I know it's going to win maybe
if we put Windows XP on them they'll
have a chance maybe